# CDTredteamtools
## This repository contains my suite of annoyance/distraction tools to be used for my Cyber Defense Techniques Class. DISCLAIMER: These tools should only be used in an authorized environment, when tool scope is approved by the stakeholders
  I created a suite of small Destructive/Destracing Tools. Each of these tools accomplishes a separate, small annoyance or distraction on the Blue Team infrastructure, to make it more difficult to identify and prevent Red Team actions. For optimization and fast deployment all of these tools have been developed using ansible, and all require root level access, and ssh on the target machines. Some of them also require python on the target machine (the ones written in python) although ansible also requires python on all targets. These tools were designed to be deployed from a Kali 2025 box (although anywhere that can run ansible should work) and the target systems are Ubuntu 24.04 (older versions may require different packages). Following is a description of each tool’s purpose and how it was built/deployed.
#### Ghost_procs: 
  The purpose of this tool is to create a handful of malicious-looking processes on a target computer, to distract Blue Team from the real Red Team processes. This is accomplished by a simple bash script, ghost_procs.sh, which loops through a crafted list of process names and runs ‘bash -c "exec -a '$name' sleep 7200" &’. This command creates a sleep process, renames it to the name in the list, and pushes the process to the background. This results in a lot of random sleep processes showing up whenever a Blue Teamer runs something like ‘ps aux’, each with its own malicious name to attempt to send them down a rabbit hole trying to figure out what that process is. Ghost_procs is deployed via ansible by copying the bash script to the target machine, running it, and immediately deleting it to cover our tracks.
#### Gremlin: 
  Gremlin is more of an annoyance tool, its purpose is to randomly send keyboard inputs to interrupt Blue Team actions. These inputs include; capslock, numlock, scroll lock, esc, tab, and alt+tab. These all occur randomly so it is not immediately recognised as a script. Because gremlin.py needs to be run constantly on the target machine, I could not deploy it in the same way as Ghost_procs. Instead the file is copied over to the target machine, and then ansible creates a fake systemd service associated with the script. This allows the script to continue running, even after a system restart, and will only stop if the file is found and removed. 
#### Haystack:
  This tool serves two purposes, the first being that it floods the authorized_keys file with hundreds of fake ssh keys to make it difficult for Blue Team to find/identify specific keys. Additionally it also will place legitimate Red Team ssh keys in the middle of the mass of fake keys, serving as an ssh backdoor (not yet implemented, need to update with legitimate ssh keys when comp starts). This will force Blue Team to clear hundreds of ssh keys from that file and potentially remove their own or the scoring engine, or they will need to spend time going through and carefully delete the fake keys. Either way their focus is shifted off of other Red Team actions. Haystack is implemented via the generate_haystack.sh script, and was deployed in the same manner as Ghost_procs (copy, run, delete). 
#### Jester: 
  Jester is a simple wall message/bell character tool. The jester.py gathers all currently logged in users and randomly sends a wall message from a list, or a bell character, or both. The purpose of this is just another simple annoyance tool that does nothing destructive but simply creates another inconvenience for Blue Team. Since this is another python script that needs to be run constantly, it was deployed by the same method as Gremlin (copy, fake systemd). 
#### Necromancer: 
  The purpose of this tool is to create a bunch of decoy users on the target machine. This includes human users, those with home directories, and service users without home directories. This is accomplished with the useradd command, with -m or -M denoting the creation of the home directory or not. These users serve as another way to distract Blue Team from the real Red Team users, and potentially cause them to delete their own users when trying to mitigate this script. The deploy_decoys.sh script is deployed in the same copy, run, delete manner as many of the previous tools.
#### Net_decoy: 
  Net_decoy is a tool that creates a lot of malicious-looking network traffic. The decoy.sh script selects a random ip on the target subnet to be the target, then chooses one of a list of suspicious ports; 22 (SSH), 445 (SMB), 3389 (RDP), 4444 (Metasploit Default), 8080 (Web C2). It sends a netcat connection to the selected ip on the selected port, and then sleeps for a random short interval. This will flood any packet capture with useless failed ARP requests, and occasionally hit Blue Team infrastructure with malicious-looking connections, further distracting them from more important actions. This tool follows the previously described deployment path; copy, fake systemd.
#### Poltergeist: 
  This is the final tool in my distraction suite, which randomly flickers capslock on the target machines. While Gremlin already does this in a way, Poltergeist is a more persistent annoyance as its sole purpose is to randomly send a capslock input between 1 and 3 times every 10 to 30 seconds. This will make typing anything on the target machine very difficult without removing this script. This also follows the deployment path; copy, fake systemd. 
#### Turncoat:
  This tool is very different from the rest in the suite. It is not meant to cause a distraction or inconvinience, but rather serve as more of a Red Team infrastructure tool. They way Turncoat works is it goes into the target machine and creates a new macvlan interface, using the same network on the main interface. This allows the new interface to have its own MAC address, and its own IP on Blue Teams' network. This interace is also hidden on the host so for example running 'ip a' on the target machine will not display this interface. Additionally, because it has its own IP and MAC, packet captures that show the traffic to/from this interface are not easily traceable to the host machine. Once the new interfaces are created, you can communticated with them from any other box, and even execute commands. Since this was configured through ansible, it requires initial ssh access, however after deployment it no longer requires an ssh connection with the target and ansible can communicate directly with the new macvlan interface, even if you add a firewall on the host to block ssh. Unfortunately this interface does not survive a system restart. This tool, while not directly malicious, could be very usefull by keeping a stealthy foothold, and potentially establish persistance or take down services from the inside (hence the name Turncoat).
### Installation and Deployment Instructions
Ensure your machine has ansible installed, and you have root level and ssh access to all your target machines from your machine. Here is an outline of the deployment process:
#### 1. Clone this repo ### ONLY IN AUTHORIZED ENVIRONMENTS
#### 2. Edit inventory/inventory.ini to match your targets, and inventory/group_vars/all.yml to add your privileged user and ssh keys for Haystack tool.
#### 3. Edit ansible/roles/net_decoy/decoy.sh to configure it for the authorized target network.
#### 4. Edit ansible/roles/turncoat/turncoat.sh to configure for authorized network and the physical interface used by your target machines. 
#### 5. For each tool you want to deploy, run 'ansible-playbook ansible/playbooks/<tool_name>.yml'
#### 6. To cleanup and remove each deployed tool, run 'ansible-playbook ansible/playbooks/cleanup-<tool_name>.yml'
That's it!!! These tools are configured to be a one time run for Red Team and long term problem for Blue Team, making it ideal for the beginning of a competition. These tools on their own are not sufficient for Red Team (they do not gather information, break services, or establish persistence) and they are meant to be used in conjunction with other Red Team tools.
### Limitations
These tools were not desinged to be extremely stealthy, in fact they are kind of the opposite, so they can be easily found by Blue Team. They are not designed for persistence, and while many of them can survive a restart, none can rebuild themselves if destroyed. With this in mind, all tools can be easily redeployed via ansible, assuming ssh and root level access is maintained. In the future, I would like to continue developing these tools to add some low level persistence, just to add a bit more frustration for Blue Team, although at this point they have not been tested in a full competition environment yet. Additionally I need to continue testing the capabilities of Turncoat in practice (I have deliberately left out instructions for how to conduct malicious actions using this tool, as it is the only one in my suite that can cause actual harm) and ideally would like to be able to make the macvlan interface survive a system reboot, but for now I think it is pretty cool. 
